README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ruuvi-friends/simple-ruuvitag.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ruuvi-friends/simple-ruuvitag)

# Simple Ruuvitag 🔧

Simple Ruuvitag is a hard frok and ***HEAVY*** simplification of [ttu work](https://github.com/ttu) [ruuvitag-sensor](https://github.com/ttu/ruuvitag-sensor)

It uses bleson python lib, which leverages Python 3 native support for Bluetooth sockets. 
However, in order for python to have access to AF_SOCKET family, python needs to be compiled with lib-bluetooth or bluez.

**⚠️ This is a recent library with no guarantee of stability. There might be breaking changes so use the release tags to pull specific version**

# Installation
```
pip install simple-ruuvitag
```

# Usage

## Simplest usage
Simplest usage is using ruuvi_client internal state.
The client will keep the latest state of all sensors that have been polled.

```python
macs = ['CC:2C:6A:1E:59:3D', 'DD:2C:6A:1E:59:3D']
ruuvi_client = RuuviTagClient(mac_addresses=macs)
ruuvi_client.start()

last_datas = ruuvi_client.get_current_datas()
print(last_datas)
```

However this means that if a sensor doesn't get updated in a while, the state will contain
old data that might pollute your dataset. To clear the state use the flag `consume=True` 

```python
last_datas = ruuvi_client.get_current_datas(consume=True)
```

## Callback usage

You cal also use a callback to handle data as it is recieved by the library.
Just pass a `callback` parameter to the listen method
```python
def handle_callback(data):
    print("Data from %s: %s" % (data[0], data[1]))

macs = ['CC:2C:6A:1E:59:3D', 'DD:2C:6A:1E:59:3D']
ruuvi_client = RuuviTagClient(callback=handle_callback, mac_addresses=macs)
ruuvi_client.start()
```

## Continous use:
Although the bluetooth observer is running, data might stop coming through.
For this we have `ruuvi_client.rescan()` witch will restart the observer, and data
should start flowing again.
```
ruuvi_client.start()
time.sleep(5)
last_datas = ruuvi_client.get_current_datas()
print(last_datas)
ruuvi_client.rescan()
time.sleep(5)
last_datas = ruuvi_client.get_current_datas()
print(last_datas)
time.sleep(5)
```

Right now there seems to be no way to ask the observer to continuously provide 
all the advertisements - https://github.com/TheCellule/python-bleson/blob/master/bleson/core/roles.py

## Compatibility notes
Right now this library should work with:
* Python Docker official images (after this PR https://github.com/docker-library/python/pull/445)
* Latest Ubuntu versions
* Projects like HASS.io (after this PR https://github.com/home-assistant/docker-base/pull/53)
* MAC OS from version 0.0.3 
    * Unfortunately only for Ruuvi data format 5. Update your tags and use mode RAW V2
    * See how to update and change modes here - https://lab.ruuvi.com/ruuvitag-fw/

## FAQ

#### AttributeError: module 'socket' has no attribute 'AF_BLUETOOTH'

1. Install bluez or lib-bluetooth depending on your platform
2. Rebuild python.

Commit message:

Add reference to the duplicate issue of linux adapter

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ruuvi-friends/simple-ruuvitag.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ruuvi-friends/simple-ruuvitag)

# Simple Ruuvitag 🔧

Simple Ruuvitag is a hard frok and ***HEAVY*** simplification of [ttu work](https://github.com/ttu) [ruuvitag-sensor](https://github.com/ttu/ruuvitag-sensor)

It uses bleson python lib, which leverages Python 3 native support for Bluetooth sockets. 
However, in order for python to have access to AF_SOCKET family, python needs to be compiled with lib-bluetooth or bluez.

**⚠️ This is a recent library with no guarantee of stability. There might be breaking changes so use the release tags to pull specific version**

# Installation
```
pip install simple-ruuvitag
```

# Usage

## Simplest usage
Simplest usage is using ruuvi_client internal state.
The client will keep the latest state of all sensors that have been polled.

```python
macs = ['CC:2C:6A:1E:59:3D', 'DD:2C:6A:1E:59:3D']
ruuvi_client = RuuviTagClient(mac_addresses=macs)
ruuvi_client.start()

last_datas = ruuvi_client.get_current_datas()
print(last_datas)
```

However this means that if a sensor doesn't get updated in a while, the state will contain
old data that might pollute your dataset. To clear the state use the flag `consume=True` 

```python
last_datas = ruuvi_client.get_current_datas(consume=True)
```

## Callback usage

You cal also use a callback to handle data as it is recieved by the library.
Just pass a `callback` parameter to the listen method
```python
def handle_callback(data):
    print("Data from %s: %s" % (data[0], data[1]))

macs = ['CC:2C:6A:1E:59:3D', 'DD:2C:6A:1E:59:3D']
ruuvi_client = RuuviTagClient(callback=handle_callback, mac_addresses=macs)
ruuvi_client.start()
```

## Continous use:
Although the bluetooth observer is running, data might stop coming through due to
duplication removal in bleson. This has been observed in the linux adapter, 
and seems to have been fixed in https://github.com/TheCellule/python-bleson/issues/40

This issue is fixed in newer versions of bleson, which are not yet published on pypi.
For now we have `ruuvi_client.rescan()` witch will restart the observer, and data
should start flowing again.
```
ruuvi_client.start()
time.sleep(5)
last_datas = ruuvi_client.get_current_datas()
print(last_datas)
ruuvi_client.rescan()
time.sleep(5)
last_datas = ruuvi_client.get_current_datas()
print(last_datas)
time.sleep(5)
```

Right now there seems to be no way to ask the observer to continuously provide 
all the advertisements - https://github.com/TheCellule/python-bleson/blob/master/bleson/core/roles.py

## Compatibility notes
Right now this library should work with:
* Python Docker official images (after this PR https://github.com/docker-library/python/pull/445)
* Latest Ubuntu versions
* Projects like HASS.io (after this PR https://github.com/home-assistant/docker-base/pull/53)
* MAC OS from version 0.0.3 
    * Unfortunately only for Ruuvi data format 5. Update your tags and use mode RAW V2
    * See how to update and change modes here - https://lab.ruuvi.com/ruuvitag-fw/

## FAQ

#### AttributeError: module 'socket' has no attribute 'AF_BLUETOOTH'

1. Install bluez or lib-bluetooth depending on your platform
2. Rebuild python.
